User Interface (UI) : Designs of the User Interface in relation to the visual styling and/or functionality of the Interface in various use cases scenarios. Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) for consumer mobile applications and web based application. But not limited to Graphical Interfaces. Interfaces are designed based on the limitations of the devices and the applications that are to be used on particular devices, paramount to understanding the design direction of an User Interface. Limitations on the design of User Interfaces include size of device screen real estate, pixel density of screens, Operating systems of the devices, pre-existing design patterns, computer software frameworks, User Personas Feelings and more. The interaction and the design of that interaction, Interaction Design (IxD) between Humans and Machines, in this particular context, Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) is a deeper understanding of the interactions between the Human User and the Machine Computer, in particular how that User interacts with that machine, and the underlining psychological reasoning behind the User's decision making while the interaction is at play. The methods that said User interacts with the machine, commonly this interaction is facilitated by an User Interface via Web Browser and/or Native Mobile Application. User Experience (UX) : The overall experience of interacting with the machine > computer > UI, as well as what types of objectives that the User should accomplish during the interaction. Starts with design thinking methodology from IBM, Empathy, Ideate, Define, Prototype, Test. Starts with using empathy to understand what a particular user may be experiencing up to the point of contact with the machine, an understanding of the headspace, mentalities, biases, and feelings that a particular user may have even before they come in contact with the machine. Ideation of what kind of user this User Interface should be designed for, mind maps to get a full scope of the concepts that could be relavant to a particular use case. Create a Persona, fictional person based on the research on the Target Demographic or hypothetical User, based on the ideation and/or based on the User Research, target demographic. Journey Maps to scope the full path of a particular user along the journey of navigating an User Interface and the various methods of Interactions with the User Interface in that journey. Designing hypthetical Scenarios to start creating Tasks that the Persona will accomplish during their navigation in the User Interface. Testing to prove hyptothesis of how Users interact with the Interface. Revamped Double Diamond is a good place to start when thinking about User Research. In first diamond, discover and then define the problem. Thinking Divergingly and then converging to a hypothesis and stragety. During the Second Diamond, develop and deliver. Again thinking diverging and then converging to the solution. Collecting data using forms and/or User Interviews to get quantitative as well as qualitative data on various parts of the User Experience Design process. Implementing what was learned into the User Experience.
