# Chapter 3: User Experience Design
## User Experience Design (UX)

User Experience (UX) : The overall experience of interacting with the machine > computer > UI, as well as what types of objectives that the User should accomplish during the interaction. Starts with design thinking methodology from IBM, Empathy, Ideate, Define, Prototype, Test. Starts with using empathy to understand what a particular user may be experiencing up to the point of contact with the machine, an understanding of the headspace, mentalities, biases, and feelings that a particular user may have even before they come in contact with the machine. Ideation of what kind of user this User Interface should be designed for, mind maps to get a full scope of the concepts that could be relavant to a particular use case. Create a Persona, fictional person based on the research on the Target Demographic or hypothetical User, based on the ideation and/or based on the User Research, target demographic. Journey Maps to scope the full path of a particular user along the journey of navigating an User Interface and the various methods of Interactions with the User Interface in that journey. Designing hypthetical Scenarios to start creating Tasks that the Persona will accomplish during their navigation in the User Interface. Testing to prove hyptothesis of how Users interact with the Interface. Revamped Double Diamond is a good place to start when thinking about User Research. In first diamond, discover and then define the problem. Thinking Divergingly and then converging to a hypothesis and stragety. During the Second Diamond, develop and deliver. Again thinking diverging and then converging to the solution. Collecting data using forms and/or User Interviews to get quantitative as well as qualitative data on various parts of the User Experience Design process. Implementing what was learned into the User Experience.
